you should accept yourself just the way
you are what does that say about who I
should become is that just now off the
table because I'm already good enough in
every way so am I done or something get
the hell up get your act together adopt
some responsibility put your life
together develop a vision unfold all
those manifold possibilities that lurk
within be a force for good in the world
and that'll be the adventure of your
life
[Music]
kids are being led to believe and
parents are being led to believe that
you can step in with these very powerful
medications these
hormones and you can deny biology and
you can pause biology you can create a
Persona of the opposite sex without
paying a huge price that is the lie
that's being told that you're not going
to pay a price for this oh yeah might be
a few side effects no no no no I mean
like a whole missing forearm for example
and a penis that doesn't work and and
sterility and lowered voice and
decreased bone density and the increased
probability of the development of cancer
and no evidence whatsoever that there's
any any mental health benefit and all
the trauma that you put your family
through and all the regret that's going
to emerge later in life when you find
out that you're sterile no ability to
breastfeed and complete loss of erotic
sensation in the nipples and it's etc
etc you mean those risks th those
trivial by the wayside risks that are
completely ignorable given all the
Euphoria you're going to experience when
you put your hand self in the hands of
liars and butchers I mean that
[Music]
story hello everybody I'm speaking to
today to Dr Miriam Gman who I first
encountered as a consequence of watching
Matt Walsh's documentary what is a woman
where she made quite a spectacular
appearance um Miriam Gman MD is a
physician author and public speaker she
has been vocal for many years about the
capture of her profession Psychiatry by
ideologues leading to dangerous and
experimental treatments on children and
betrayal of
parents as I said Dr Gman was featured
in The Daily wires hit documentary what
is a woman she's the author of four
books and her work has been translated
into 11 languages after graduating with
honors from brinar college Dr Gman
attended New York University med school
she completed an internship in
Pediatrics at Beth Israel Hospital in
New York and a residency in Psychiatry
through Cornell Medical College followed
by a fellowship in Child and Adolescent
Psychiatry Dr grman is board certified
in psychiatry
and in the subsp specialty of Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry and so I thought
it would be interesting especially given
our shared interest as well in clinical
is matters because Dr grman is a
practicing uh clinician I thought it
would be interesting to have a further
conversation so that's what we're doing
today she wrote you're teaching my child
what back in 2009 which is pretty damn
early all things considered and she has
a new book coming out later this year
it's already available for pre order you
can check that out in the in the uh
video description be a URL link there
it's called lost in transnation a child
psychiatrist guide out of the madness
and so out of the madness that's pretty
uh forthright terminology you might say
so um why don't we start on the
biographical side a bit you started to
become concerned about the issues you've
been writing and speaking about well
obviously before 2009 because you wrote
a book in 2009 and that usually takes a
year or two and so you're an early
Observer of things going seriously
sideways on the clinical front and so
let's go back to well the the the the
decade of the 2000s what were you seeing
and why do you think you were concerned
about it when so many of your colleagues
my colleagues well are still not
concerned about it let's say yes well
what happened is that I was researching
uh sex that education and what young
people are taught in their sex education
and I was doing that because I was
working with students at UCLA at the
time and there was such an alarming
degree of um sexually transmitted
infections and abortions and and so on
that I I was curious to know exactly
what kids are being taught about
sexuality
and uh I was quite shocked to see uh
what they were being taught but one of
the things that that shocked me I think
more than anything was I discovered this
uh I like to call it a a a belief system
or an or an ideology of
gender uh that kids were being
told uh you know that there's that
there's something called gender which is
separate from sex and it's sort of like
a psychological sex and that a person
can uh uh have a gender that's at odds
with their physical reality and that
that is normal and healthy and in fact
it's wonderful to explore what your
gender might be and so on and so forth
all the things that that we know about
that are being said right now and that
that I mean I I just couldn't believe it
I couldn't believe that
um first of all you know it's not so you
you cannot simply um claim that that you
can divorce your identity from your
physical reality and all that is just
all fine and good um that's dangerous
and and I knew from the second that I
saw it I was very concerned about the um
the D stabilizing and confusing effect
that that would have on young people I
mean right I mean we we want as you know
in Psychiatry and psychology we want
people to have a stable identity people
want to know who they are they don't
want to be confused about who they are
and they certainly don't want to be
confused about something as important as
whether they're male or female MH and so
when I when when the pronoun legislation
came out in Canada bill c16 which
mandated gender ideological related
pronoun usage well in personal
conversation I told the American or the
Canadian Senate that that would cause
enough confusion to produce a a
psychological epidemic among young women
because the literature on that quite
clear going back back several hundred
years and it I think you can make a
pretty strong case and you do this to
some degree in your book in chapter 7
that there are few more fundamental
perceptual categories than male and
female I think they might be that
category system might be as fundamental
as up or down and or black and white or
light and dark those would be the only
ones that I can think of that are in the
same at the same depth of of cognitive
necessity perceptual necess
you know one of the things that people
tend to think when they think casually
is that if you have more choice you have
more freedom and more choice and more
freedom is always good but the problem
with that is that a plethora of choice
so excess Choice excess option produces
not Freedom But anxiety because there's
only a limited amount of information
that you can deal with at any given
moment and if people are put in a
situation where everything is up for
grabs they're not free they're terrified
and that's part of the reason as far as
I can tell why rates of depression and
anxiety among young people have
skyrocketed recent years especially
among young women who are also the ones
who are most likely to fall prey to
psychological epidemics in general and
the one that we're in now specifically
so and I certainly agree with that um
and especially when one of those many
choices that we're providing to young
people is to deny reality so it's not
just that we're providing them with too
many choices you know like when you walk
down the cereal the cereal aisle and
there's like 200 different kinds of
cereal and you get dizzy from it that's
not what we're talking about we're
talking about one of the options here is
to actually deny reality and not it's
not I would even go further than that
there's a there's there's a celebration
of denying reality there's a celebration
of being confused now you'll note that
in the uh you know that that that
lgbtq uh includes that q and I think
that's very important to look at when
you include the letter Q in the list of
different identities lgbtq and then plus
the Q stands for
questioning now since when can
questioning actually be an identity and
yeah the the the meaning of identity is
that it's something that is more or less
fixed not that it's something that's a
big question
mark inflation has consequences as the
FED raises interest rates to combat
outof control government spending
long-term bonds are diminishing in value
which is crippling the banks depositors
are holding their breath and investors
are bailing on Bank stocks
diversification has never been more
important the recent surge in gold
prices is directly tied to an extremely
volatile Market that is why gold has
historically been a great hedge against
the stock market and against inflation
trust the experts at Birch gold group to
help you diversify into gold text Jordan
to 9898 98 to get a free info kit on
gold Birch gold will help you convert an
existing Ira or 401K into a tax
sheltered Ira in physical precious
metals with an A+ rating with the better
Business Bureau thousands of happy
customers and countless five-star
reviews you can trust Birch gold to
protect your future text Jordan to 98
9898 to get your free info kit on gold
today then talk to one of their precious
metal Specialists that's Jordan to 98
today well identity we it we it would be
useful to delve into that too because
people don't really understand what an
identity does
and we have lapsed into this idiot
subjectivity that's predicated on the
assumption that you are whatever you
feel now first of all that's a very bad
measurement from a scientific or
clinical perspective because you never
rely as a good clinician merely on what
people feel you need multiple converging
sources of evidence to make a diagnosis
but the second part is more relevant
which is that your identity is actually
a framework of attentional
prioritization and action that enables
you to function well in the natural and
social environments you could say the
psychological natural and social
environments and what you feel you are
is not going to be a useful identity if
it's not integrated with other people
you know PJ pointed out for example that
developmental psychologist that children
have to integrate their um ability to
play in a social context they have to
negotiate an identity even when they're
just playing a game with their friends
and identity itself is socially
negotiated which the lefties should know
because they're all bang on about
constructivism constantly and so the
idea that's identity is only subjective
and that it's only defined by what you
feel is unethical that's an unethical
stance for clinicians to adopt but it's
also completely impractical because your
identity is the game you play with your
intimate partner it's the game you play
with your family it's the game you play
with your community like you have to be
nested socially at multiple levels of
the social hierarchy in order to have a
functional identity and then to replace
that with merely what you feel and to
enforce that by Fiat well the only thing
that could be more counterproductive
than that is uh as you pointed out an
identity that's only based on
questioning which is just a pathway to
you know existential angst and
hopelessness
well we have to acknowledge that aside
from being unethical and confusing it's
extremely
dangerous because it put yes I and we we
we we have to always keep that in front
of us you know I spend a lot of time
talking with families parents kids and
uh people who have been through this
ordeal and so I always have in front of
me Dr Peterson
their their faces and their words and
one of the reasons that I wanted to do
this interview with
you is to give those people a voice
there's a whole population of
individuals and I'm speaking here people
have already talked about the D
transitioners and you had Khloe Cole on
which was amazing but I want to speak
about a different population and and
that is the
parents the parents of these young
people who uh have fallen
into I'm going to say this this darkness
and this this
confusion um these
parents uh are are are
traumatized and let me tell you let me
just tell you a little story I a few
years ago um I joined
I joined a uh support group an online
support group of
parents uh who were new who whose whose
kids had recently announced that they
were the opposite sex or neither sex and
you know there are these these private
Facebook groups and other groups that
that parents attend and they generally
are Anonymous and they have to be vetted
and you know there's there's this huge
process that they have to go through
that takes weeks and weeks in order to
get the support that they need um
because our profession the mental health
profession is not giving them our
profession is demonizing them so they
have demonizing you're saying you're
saying demonizing the parents who are
concerned about what's happening to
their kids on the gender education front
yes the the parents that will not
immediately you know jump into
affirmation and are feeling very
strongly that this is not you know the
real issue that the real issue is that
the child has underlying trauma or
Autism or anxiety or what have you the
real issue may be that the family you
has had a lot of you know there's been
crisis or there's been losses or deaths
or Co or what have you and the family is
saying look my child is now saying that
you know that they're trans gender but I
really feel that there's other things
going on here why are you immediately
giving us a referral to an
endocrinologist for for blockers in
testosterone and those parents are are
are traumatized because well they're
traumatized for lots of reasons okay
let's let's list their their traumas and
I have a whole chapter about this in my
book because honestly Dr Peterson I am
so troubled by by how these parents have
been treated and are being treated by
the mental health profession by the
medical
profession y by the media yeah well well
you know the most
common problem that I've seen emerge out
of that is this so the American
Psychological Association announced in
its its guidelines for gender affirming
care that there were no valid long-term
studies of the psychological
consequences of transitioning and they
uted that to um the Prejudice on the
part of clinicians and researchers
against the trans Community which is of
course absolutely Preposterous um uh
accusation but be that as it may but
then three or four pages later they said
well you know the evidence is very clear
that if you don't help people transition
early that their mental health outcome
is much worse including the risk for
suicide now both of those can't be true
we can't have an absolute dir of
long-term follow-up studies on the
gender transformation front because of
prejudice in the research field and know
without a doubt that youthful transition
is the best Pathway to mental health
which it most certainly and 100% is not
but that hasn't stopped idiot coward
psychiatrist psychologists social
workers Etc from saying such things to
parents as well would you rather have a
dead trans a dead child or a live trans
child and so they put that at the feet
of the parents which is well if you
object to this then all you're doing is
increasing the suicide risk for your for
your troubled child which is about as
cruel a thing as you could possibly say
to parents I can't imagine something
more manipul manipulative and also
something so ungrounded in anything
approximating clinical fact now it is
the case perhaps that a young woman who
is troubled emotionally who takes test
testosterone might feel a momentary
Improvement in mood that's a consequence
of the physiological effects of the
testosterone but there's no evidence
whatsoever that that's actually linked
to the gender transition process now you
don't see the same elevation in Mood by
the way as far as I've been able to tell
from the research literature in the case
of boys who are transitioning to girls
and that also indicates that it's more
than likely pharmacological but it is
the case that the medical profession the
counseling profession has been enti IED
into this situation and also compelled
by legislation gender affirming care
legislation to outright lie to parents
about the relative risks and you know
like I know that these kids who are
gender dysphoric their underlying
condition is something in the broader
depression anxiety realm and that the
gender dysphoria is only a it's a
variant expression of that underlying uh
broader
Psychopathology so um look at what if we
look at what's happened in our
conversation here just the past few
minutes we can see the pattern of what
is happening on a broader scale in all
these discussions which is that we
always return to the child now I'm not
saying of course we have to talk about
the kids obviously we have to talk about
the kids but we have to talk about the
parents and what all this is doing to
families it's a
destructive uh uh uh event in the family
it's an ordeal that's that they'll have
to go through for years and years and
you know the way that I'm going to
describe it to you I I don't know if you
saw the movie Gone With the
Wind but there's a there's an iconic
scene in Gone With the Wind and I'm
going to use the description of that
scene to help you understand where I'm
coming from so the scene that I'm
talking about is when Scarlet O'Hara is
panicked because uh Melanie is in is
going to have a baby and she runs to
find the doctor to help with the
delivery of the baby and she goes in
order to find the doctor she goes to
this um it's like a makeshift Hospital
on the grounds of a of a of a train
station and you see Scarlet O'Hara
walking through this
just massive area of hundreds and
thousands of injured
moaning you know bleeding soldiers and
some of them are dead and a lot of them
are being carried away on stretchers and
they're they're moaning and they're
calling out to
her well Dr Peterson
that's that's that's what
I'm that's what I'm seeing that's what
I'm hearing all the families remember
for every kid that has fallen into the
gender
ideology uh trap or whatever we're going
to call it the ideology the pit there
are lots of other people not just
parents there's siblings there's
grandparents there's aunts and uncles
and cousins there's a there's a huge
ripple effect on people and we need to
see that because it's not only the kids
that are the casualties the parents the
parents have trauma and they are
grieving and it's all it none of it is
acknowledged except by each other in
these secret groups that they have and
so what I did about year and a half ago
I felt so troubled by what I saw going
on and all these people calling me and
well not calling me but emailing me and
you know I the parents and I I i' I'd
meet them and hear their stories and see
their anguish and
um you know a lot of their anguish was
over my colleagues my colleagues in
medicine so I felt that I wanted to
speak to these parents
um not just individually but as a group
so I'm in touch with with a lot of the
the parents of rogd kids and we arranged
uh an online Rd rogd is
what rapid onset gender dysphoria yes
yes right right that's the psychogenic
epidemic correct okay so so you arranged
yeah these are not the kids who like
Jazz Jennings for example from the age
of two is you know comes to their
parents and says you know I'm the
opposite sex this is a whole other thing
um this is a social contagion it's
fueled by social media um Lisa Lipman
described it I'm sure that you've had
other people probably discuss that but
um yeah so I did a few zooms with the
parents 50 60 parents and I did it as
much for them as for myself honestly I
really felt that I needed to say a few
things to them and the gist of what I
told them was I wanted to
acknowledge the the the horrific ordeal
that they're going through I wanted to
acknowledge the trauma that they are
going through real trauma I'm not using
that word you know people talk about you
know being triggered from some little
thing and they get upset you know they a
bad haircut or something they got
triggered I'm not talking about that
their equestrian hat doesn't fit right
that's the newest one
yeah okay this is
genuine you know this is genuine
post-traumatic stress disorder but it's
not post they're still going through it
the trauma is
ongoing okay day after day and week
after week and sometimes year after year
so they have they they have a stress
disorder and they also have grief from
their losses and so when I went on to
that Zoom with them I I I in I wanted to
recognize that because my profession is
not recognizing it and I thought that it
was important that they hear from a
psychiatrist
that that I knew how traumatized they
were and how many losses and how much
grief they were dealing with and that I
knew that my profession has abandoned
them by and large are there exceptions
well of course there's there's
exceptions but by and large if you look
at the mainstream authorities right the
American Psychiatric association the
American Psychological Association the
endocrin society the American Medical
said on and on and on we have abandoned
these parents and their children I
believe but I'm just talking about the
parents how do you account for that the
fact that in in such short order all of
these highlevel um governing bodies and
associations not only on the
psychological front but as you pointed
out on the psychiatric and medical front
have gone full uh have announced their
full support for all of the
presuppositions that are producing this
psychological epidemic I mean how do you
how do you understand that and and how
did you see it make itself manifest in
2009 yeah can I can can I want to go
just go back I didn't finish with my
talks to the
parents please do finish I just want I
want to finish that one part
so what I you know I I was looking at my
screen you know at the the grid of of of
all the different the parents that were
listening in and I said to them that as
a psychiatrist I am
acknowledging the ordeal the terrible
ordeal they're going through and that
they have experienced and are
experiencing trauma and when your you
know your daughter comes home and her
voice has dropped and she's growing
facial hair that's
traumatic and when your son comes down
the stairs to go to the Trum in a to go
to the prom wearing a dress and heels
and
makeup that's
traumatic uh and worse of course there's
much worse than those things you know
when you learn that your daughter is
scheduled to have a mastectomy when you
learn that your son is having genital
surgery and their and these their kids
are going to be sterilized and they're
never going to have you're not going to
have grandchildren these things are
traumatic and they are
losses and
I apologized on behalf not that anyone
from the my
profession chose me to to speak for them
but I decided that I wanted to do that
and I
apologized and I looked out I looked at
that grid you know as when you're doing
a zoom and there's a lot of people there
and I noticed that almost you know more
than half the cameras 80% of the cameras
were turned off
I could only see really a few
faces and at the time I I really I
didn't know why that would have been I
thought maybe you know they're in the
kitchen or they're busy or I I really
didn't know and then I found out later
on Dr Peterson that their cameras were
off because they were
crying
huh they were crying just to hear a
professional a mental health
professional say to them
yeah yeah you're
traumatized you you you are dealing with
grief with serious grief just like the
trauma of someone that went through a
natural disaster or 911 just like the
trauma of parents who are told their kid
has
cancer no less than that and in fact
more more complicated than that because
your trauma and grief is not
acknowledged it's
disenfranchised and as you know
disenfranchised grief complicated grief
is much more difficult to live with to
deal with and to heal
with so when you have a a a a terrible
loss and grief and you can't even share
it with people at work work or maybe
even your own family um and maybe your
you know your other children are are uh
are endorsing the unreality and are
using the new name and pronouns maybe
even your spouse is and so some of these
parents are living with such deep
loneliness in their
grief and I I just feel a calling to to
speak out for those parents and and and
to give them a voice because they are
terrified to be identified most of them
they for various reasons uh they don't
they don't want to be recognized for for
their beliefs uh in terms of their
profession uh they don't they're still
hoping that their child is going to
desist and come out of the gender
confusion and they don't want their
child to be aware that they're speaking
out so when I speak to parents you have
to understand they're very often in
their cars they're in the basement
they're in the garage they're in their
bathrooms
Whispering so you're you're not speaking
merely of disenfranchised grief so we
could Define that as someone isolated
who's unable to pour out their heart
let's say anyone who's willing to listen
you're actually talking about demonized
grief because the under story here is
that in our current political and
ideological climate if you dare to
grieve about the fact that your child is
being pushed towards surgical
sterilization by idiot ideologues then
not only is that inappropriate it's
positively morally unacceptable right
because apparently this is something
that all good thinking people including
parents should only celebrate and if you
oppose it in any manner whatsoever not
only is that inappropriate it's positive
evidence that you're a bigoted
misogynistic exclusionary you know
racist homophobe all the satanic
adjectives you can possibly imagine are
going to be dumped on so it's worse than
mere
disenfranchisement and that you are the
reason that your child's mental health
has plummeted right you are the reason
if your child makes a suicide it is your
fault for not affirming that child
immediately and what I have in my book
is how you know advice for parents on
how to deal with that for example if
they have to admit their child to the
hospital for a suicide attempt how to uh
talk with the staff at the hospital
about this issue when the staff is going
to sit down with them the treatment team
is going to sit down with the parents
and say well you
know you really you have to affirm your
trust this is why your child is trying
to commit suicide so I give parents uh
very detailed advice on that
conversation that they need to have with
the staff at the hospital or with this
with their therapist or at the schools
you know I am what I'm trying to do is
to provide parents with the tools that
they need in order you know they're
trying to protect their child not only
against the ideology
but against all the institutions that we
used to trust our schools our Mental
Health Medicine the field of medicine
hospitals you know the list goes on and
on um those institutions that we used to
trust parents need the ammunition and
the wherewithal and the confidence to be
able to go to them and say well hold on
a minute let me just tell you about AB b
c and d and I give them the information
that they need so there is no consensus
on this issue you know parents and
everyone is being led to believe that
there's a consensus on this issue of how
do we take care of these kids there is
no consensus there is an all
allout uh war going on on a professional
level that
that that no one is hearing about
because it's not being covered outside
of people like yourself and other you
know conservative media is covering the
fact that there is an international
debate going on and that there are
countries who have made a 180 the most
liberal LGBT friendly uh countries such
as Finland and Sweden and and and
England as you know have made a 180 in
this direction and so that a child
living
in in Stockholm or Oslo is not going to
be able to get those puberty blockers
and that testosterone um without you in
general cannot get them if they are
entered into you know a very rare
instance uh in which they perhaps are
part of a uh a study in which they're
closely going to be monitored and
watched and given a lot of psychotherapy
and so on and so forth but but in
general kids are not going to be able to
access those treatments whereas in this
country huh in this country you walk in
and get blockers after half an hour in
this country You' walk into Planned
Parenthood Planned Parenthood has been
particularly pathological on that front
they had a uh gender
Euphoria uh promotion advertising to
kids the ease and low Co ease of access
and low cost of the correct minimal
counseling necessary to start them on
puberty blockers which then turns into
hormone therapy which then generally
leads down the Garden Path to surgery
these this advice for parents is this in
your 2009 book you're teaching my child
what or in your new book lost in
transnation no no it's coming up it's
coming up in
2009 I I had no idea that things would
explode like this in 2009 I thought that
when I described what kids were being
taught in sex education using our tax
dollars that they were being taught all
this rubbish about gender and you know
born in the wrong body and you know it's
it's a matter of it's oppressive to be
taught that we are all either male or
female and that we have to break out of
that oppressive uh you know way of
thinking I thought that binary yeah that
that oppressive gender binary I thought
that when I demonstrated that kids were
being being taught that there would be
you know a huge
reaction um sadly that did not happen
and this huge reaction is only taking
place many years later when we are being
faced with this terrible crisis okay
well so I thought unless you have
another Direction you want to take this
and I thought we might delve into the
gender issue for a moment both
scientifically and historically I want
to I would like you to tell the audience
a few things about John money for
example so let's for
okay I'm just I'll say one more thing I
just say one more thing about the parent
I'm very devoted to the parents okay we
you know uh everyone is terribly
concerned about the suicide rate among
uh kids who are questioning or confused
about their gender identity and of
course we have to always be concerned
one suicide is too many we're all on the
same page about preventing
suicide okay but no one is talking about
the fact that you know what some of the
parents are
suicidal this whole thing is driving
some of the parents to feeling suicidal
and I'm talking about parents who have
gone through the most terrible things in
their lives and this issue this
particular
ordeal with their child seeing their
child slip away and become someone
unrecognizable both in terms of their
personality and
their uh physical
Persona and and in in terms of their
future losses will this child be totally
estranged from the family is this child
going to come visit me when I'm sick in
the hospital uh is this child you know
going to come to their siblings weddings
so you have to understand that even
parents who are you know who who who
went through divorces or cancer or 911
or what have you terrible things and
they were able to go through those
things without psychiatric help without
medication this particular issue they
tell me this is worse than all of that
and now they do need medication and now
they can't sleep and now they can't get
through the
day the season of Lent might be over but
it's never too late to more deeply
embrace our faith with the crazy leftist
ideologies there is no better time to
start building a habit of prayer and
meditation join me and thousands of
others on hallow the number one
Christian Prayer app in the US download
the app for free at hall.com Jordan you
can set prayer reminders and track your
progress along the way not sure where to
start check out father Mike Schmidt's
Bible in a year available on the Hallow
app for brief daily Bible readings and
Reflections or pray alongside Mark
Wahlberg Jim cavel and even some
worldclass athletes with hallow you can
customize a personal prayer plan that
works for you listen anywhere you are
with downloadable offline sessions get
an exclusive 3-month free trial at
hall.com Jordan that's h.com Jordan
you well I can barely imagine anything
worse than being in a situation where
you're you have a child who's been
pressured by idiot ideologues and
potentially your spouse as well to
radically transform themselves in an
extraordinarily destructive way um in a
manner that's going to echo down the
decades that's going to disrupt the
entire family structure uh permanently
and that's going to turn the person you
love into something like a confused
monstrosity
which I think is the most General
outcome that and that you are powerless
and made powerless as well by the courts
to do anything about it and also subject
to the punishment of law if you dare to
voice your anti-trans opinion I mean
that's a pretty dismal corner of hell
that okay so yes so I also address that
I I address schools I have a chapter on
schools in this upcoming
book understanding what's going on in
the schools this book that's coming
out lost in
transnation is not only a book for
parents who have a child that is
currently in this ordeal it's a book for
parents who whose children are little or
who have not yet been influenced to go
in this direction I want to help um
parents to be
proactive so that they can dodge this
nuclear bomb and not be ambushed by it
parents are being ambushed by this they
don't expect it they think it's not
going to happen in their family and I
want parents to know that no family is
immune and they must be prepared for
this they have to get educated they have
to understand what they're dealing with
what the ideology is about I prefer to
call it a belief system but whatever you
know what the school what's going on in
the school in the courts what if CPS
what if the Department of Family and and
and services knocks on your door and
they're there with the police what are
you going to do I have I and I tell
parents what to do when that
happens what are their rights that's
another experience that's extremely
stressful for families for a family
that's been striving to act in a decent
and appropriate manner to have Child
Protection Services show up on the
doorstep especially with the police
especially when they threaten the other
kids let's say with being removed from
the family and also make a public
display so the neighbor Neighbors can
watch and also set the parents who are
conscientious back on their heels with
regards to grief and guilt for being
accused by the authorities of doing such
things as abusing their children is that
that's absolutely devastating to people
I've I know many people to whom that's
happened and that's just one bit of the
nightmare that you're
describing it's it's uh it's
unfathomable how bad this is how evil
this is well so so let's let's delve
into that a little bit so I wrote an
article a while back which I tried to
make as hard-hitting as I possibly could
we published that in the Telegraph and I
described the people who are engaged in
this on the counseling side so our
professions let's say as liars and the
surgeons who are participating in this
greed inspired delusional sadistic
Madness as butchers and called for jail
sentences for example for the people who
were involved which is about as harsh as
I could manage and you know the response
to that column was remarkably positive
uh ese first of all it was published
which shocked the hell out of me and
second the responses generally speaking
were extraordinarily positive and given
that and given as well that you know I
know many of my clinical colleagues and
many many uh clinicians around the world
and it's not as if they don't have more
sophisticated theories of identity than
those are being put forth by the gender
ideologues how the hell do you account
for two things this I asked you this
question earlier the absolute capture of
these once respectable institutions
which is appalling beyond comprehension
but also the unbelievable cowardice
demonstrated by members of the
psychiatric psychological and counseling
communities mean some its ignorance you
know you talk to counselors now and then
who are so damn poorly educated that
they buy the gender ideology but there's
the vast majority of well-trained
clinicians are wise and perspicacious
enough to know perfectly well that these
identity theories are to call them
simplistic and diluted is barely to
scratch the surface but they're
unbelievably timid about coming forward
and so what the hell happened like how
did this capture take place and how do
you account for this stunningly
widespread d ction of Duty and utter
cowardice well said well
said okay
well uh this is one of the my goals of
the book also is to educate parents so
that they understand the background so
you mentioned John money of course this
goes back to John money John money
introduced the idea of gender identity
he coined the term gender identity and
he said that uh the gender identity is
is completely separate from biology and
that it is something it is one's
identity as male or female because back
then of course we didn't have the
non-binary and you know in between all
that you know 47 different gender stuff
so in the 50s when John money was
writing and speaking about all this we
had male and female and his theory was
that male and female is something that
is foed on a a a a baby a a child um by
society and that it is unrelated to
biology he further said that men and
women males and females have biological
distinctions but they are limited to um
uh
menstruating gestating and
lactating and that that was it aside
from those three
things uh everything else in terms of
personality and uh preferences for
activities or um you know cognitive
abilities um emotional Styles
perceptions that is
all uh uh it's a social construct okay
it's all put on the child uh in the
first two and a half to three years of
life and then John money said it's
fixed so you know when you put the pink
blanket on the little girl and the blue
blanket on the boy and then you give
them the toys and you give
them you know you have certain
expectations
um based on whether it's a boy or a girl
and all those things the frilly dresses
and the you know the 50s was a time of
course of of uh stereotypes so he spoke
about it in terms of you know the the
girl's going to be in the kitchen making
cookies and the boy's going to be out
you know fixing the car with his dad and
he said if you take a girl uh uh you
know with ambigu okay I'm sorry let me
let me go back a minute John money's
specialty his his interest was in
hermaphrodites okay uh very rare uh
babies that are born with ambiguous
genitalia and those ambiguous genitalia
are due to to some congenital issue
either endocrinological or or uh or due
to chrom chromosomal abnormality and the
baby is born uh they take a look at the
genitals it's just not clear what's
going on and that's where the term comes
from this is important
assigned sex at Birth
assigned because in those
cases and these were the cases that John
money became an expert in and he opened
up a center specifically having to do
with I mean his PhD that he wrote in the
50s um was on the issue of sex
assignment of
hermaphrodites what do you do it's a
crisis you have to say we had a girl or
we had a boy and so what do you do in
those cases and you had a special
interest in this now you and I know that
when someone has a certain interest in
their life that consumes them to the
point that they they're writing their
PHD about it they're studying it they
make it their career there's usually a
reason behind it
it and it's worthwhile exploring that
reason now when you look at John money
um when you look at John money and his
early life and he wrote about this he
was very open about it he grew up in a
uh uh he grew up in a under the the the
the hand of an
abusive alcoholic out of control father
who would beat him and his mother so
John money as a child was not only
beaten
but watched his mother being
beaten he no doubt had a terrible
childhood and uh that that
influenced his his image of masculinity
was this monstrous individual
and he wrote later on he grew up on a
Farm by the way and he wrote later on in
one of his books that he realized that
the world might be better off if not
only animals but
men were gelded at Birth castrated okay
gelded is the word you know used for
animals so he said that the world might
be a better place if men were gelded
and he also
wrote he said I
wear the vile
Mark of male
sexuality in other words we would call
that gender
dysphoria
MH he's talking about his own body and
he's saying that
his genitals
were vile to
him that is gender dysphoria we didn't
call it then we didn't have a name for
it back then so clearly John money was
uncomfortable to say the very least with
his own masculinity and his own
body so it's not a surprise that he
would come up with a
theory that if true would
comfort him on some level that he is not
going to become his father he's not his
father even though he shares the same
type
of physical reality his body his
genitals are are of a
man
but if his theory is true and there's
such a thing as gender which is
completely separate than
biology then it gives John it gave John
money like a way out right of right of
not identifying with a
monster have you ever read the fine
print that appears when you start
browsing in incognito mode it says that
your activity might still be visible to
your employer your school or your
internet service provider to actually
stop people from monitoring your online
activity you need
expressvpn think about all the times
you've used Wi-Fi at a coffee shop hotel
or even a friend's house without
expressvpn every site you visit can be
logged by the Admin of that Network
that's still true even when you're in
incognito mode expressvpn is an app that
encrypts all of your network data and
routs it through a network of secure
servers so that your private online
activity stays private expressvpn works
on all your devices and is super easy to
use the app has one button you tap it to
connect and your browsing activity is
secure stop letting strangers invade
your online privacy by visiting
expressvpn / Jordan that's ex P SS
vpn.com Jordan and get three extra
months free expressvpn.com
Jordan well so you can imagine you can
imagine the psychological impetus there
is if you make the initial assumption
that there's a certain degree of innate
pathological aggression associated with
masculinity and then you develop a
counter theory that much of that is in
socialized then there's a route out of
it and that gives him well that gives
him an easy out that that's the thing is
that instead of having to contend with
that internally he can also externalize
that and make that a sociological
phenomena I see this with the the
insistence on the trans activists part
that trans uh identity is much more
common than it truly is and that it's
immoral to interfere with its
manifestation I see that as an extension
of Freudian rational Iz ation you know
if you've taken a a dramatic route in
your life or something dramatic has
happened to you you have every reason to
justify your decision post Hawk and so
so let's walk through what happened with
money so he got involved in a very
famous case which certain out he
certainly did um but let's
just uh tell your audience furthermore
that he he wrote his PhD
uh on hermaphrodites and on how to
assign their sex uh and then he went on
to open the first clinic in the United
States for
hermaphrodites uh for their treatment
including their
surgeries so he made
available for the first time in the
United States um a a place where uh uh
there would be gender reassignment or
sex reassignment including the surgeries
and the surgeries involved uh castration
of course so we go back to what he said
about being
gelded uh and you know I can't help but
think that on some level he might have
been thinking you know I'm th this is
I'm helping these kids I'm helping these
little boys by gilding them by
castrating them and making them into
women of course they can't be made into
women but the way that he was thinking
about it
so he had his theory uh and he didn't
have any way of proving it because I
mean how do you prove something like
that you until uh until this family
showed up at his
doorstep um and it was a uh family
Canadian family from Winnipeg I think
right um I think that's yeah yeah and
they were the the reamer family a blue
collar very young couple 20 21 years old
um and they had a horrific tragedy in
their family which is that they gave
birth to twin boys the boys were fine
and when the boys were well actually
they had fimosis fimosis is a um
abnormality of the um opening the the
opening of the urethra at the tip for
the
penis so the the boys had fimosis and so
the doctors um recommended circumcision
for the boys and they went in when they
were eight months old for circumcision
and uh the first boy to go in for the
circumcision was Bruce and the
um the equipment
uh the equipment there was a a
malfunction of the equipment and they
were
cauterizing the the penis in order to
circumcise it and instead of just that
small amount of tissue that was supposed
to be
cauterized apparently the the uh you
know the settings were Incorrect and the
entire penis was
burnt so Bruce's penis was burnt um you
know Beyond any
functionality so these poor parents went
home the other the other boy was not
circumcised just obviously they went
home and what are they supposed to
do they have a boy without a
penis what the hell are they supposed to
do so months
later they were um watching
television and John money happened to be
on there and you have to know also that
John money was an
extremely
pompous um uh self- assured
individual uh he was
sophisticated uh when he talked you
listened
um he came across as being definitive
being you know calling the shots knowing
knowing what was going on knowing the
research knowing the truth and
he he in this interview on
television said that a boy can be raised
as a girl and a girl can be raised as a
boy if it's caught if if it's done early
enough and that um early enough means
before the age of two and a half or
three um and and the parents the reamer
parents
immediately uh took note of that and
they thought here here's the answer this
this is the answer for for Bruce this is
what we're supposed to
do so they contacted uh Dr money down in
uh in
Baltimore uh and they and they made an
appointment and took the twins down to
Baltimore and went down
there again you have to understand that
this was a
uneducated young blue family and when
they were interviewed later about their
meetings with John money um they
described him as like we just thought he
was
God we just thought you know this is I
mean he's a professor and he's you know
got all the diplomas and he's the head
of this uh this this entire clinic at at
a at an outstanding uh University one of
the major universities uh in in the
world was John Hopkins right yes so you
have to imagine this young couple coming
and they're at a loss and they are
looking for an answer they've been
praying they're looking for an answer to
their prayers what are we going to do
with
Bruce and John money says well we have
an answer for you because male and
female is actually not related to
chromosomes it's not related to
hormones it's not innate
we can take little Bruce and we have to
do some surgery on Bruce we have to
castrate him and we'll remove his
testicles he already didn't have a penis
we're going to remove his testicles
we're going to make we're going to
Fashion you know some sort of um
Elementary sort of female
genitalia you're going to give them a
girl's name
and you're going to put him in pink
dresses and give him dolls and raise him
as a girl and you are never ever doctor
money told the parents never to tell him
that this was truly what happened and
and you know after he was born never
tell him because that will ruin
everything and it's up to you you have
to just work your hardest to raise him
as a girl and make sure that everyone
around him is Raising is considering him
a girl because essentially he is a
girl and so Not only was this the answer
to the reamer's prayers this was as you
can understand now the answer to Dr
money's prayers right right he had an
experiment this was the experiment this
was his proof of
concept his
concept was that being male and female
is completely separate from biology it's
imposed by Society it's a social
construct and this was his proof of
concept and so the reamers went home
well he had his
surgery uh they took him home they named
uh they named Bruce Brenda they put him
in All the Girls clothing and they gave
him dolls and they you know they did all
the all the things and he peed sitting
down
sometimes because as we'll learn later
he actually preferred urinating standing
up which is
astonishing we learned later that he
always wanted to urinate standing
up and from the time he was in
diapers I
think he was told he was a girl so that
really is fascinating but anyway um so
they took him home raised him as a girl
and uh Dr money started to follow the
twins every year they would come down
for a visit um the parents would spend
time speaking to Dr money and then the
money I mean the
money there's a slip fian slip for you
yeahh Dr money would take the twins
without the parents
into his office and spend time with the
twins so this went on for
years and Dr money began to report on
his study that became a famous landmark
study um and he called them uh uh he
called her Joan in his in his study he
was beginning to write about this and
lecture and he was claiming that Joan uh
AKA Brenda AKA Bruce was doing
great I mean uh she was adjusting she
was she may be a bit of a tomboy he he
he would acknowledge that but in every
way you know she was adjusting and she
was doing well with friends and with
schools and she liked playing with dolls
and she uh would mimic her mom and he
was giving this glowing glowing report
from year a year and in his um in his uh
you know professional writing of his his
studies his report and he was giving
talks um and he was getting you might
imagine tremendous attention for this I
mean you have to understand this was by
now maybe uh you know the early 60s this
is
feminism okay this is the sexual
Revolution this is a time when Society
um
or or at least part of society wanted
nothing more to say that male and female
is a social
construct and that in order to gain you
know full equality women have to be
considered the same as
men and you know to have a study such as
this study of John Mone in which he was
reporting that this baby who was EX you
know normal chromosomes normal
everything biologically but is being
successfully raised as a girl because he
has a girls name and girls and dresses
and dolls and all you know his entire
Society his teachers and his
grandparents and everyone is reinforcing
the idea that he's a
delicate girl who who who likes to cook
and you know is going to grow up to have
babies
I mean this was
huge
now um what happened is that this theory
of John
money um
became was
accepted over over the decades we didn't
find out what really happened with the
twins until decades
later um and in the meantime in during
those decades his theory was became
Doctrine okay his theory became just
baked into um you know so many fields of
uh both soft and hard science so that it
it it was standard that whenever you had
um for example an
XY uh or any any child that that had
ambiguous genitalia if they could be
raised as a girl they'd be raised as a
girl so they'd be castrated just
automatically why because of the great
success because of what John money um
proved to us proved to us and so lots
and lots of boys all over the world I
mean this was written into the you know
the textbooks of endocrinology and the
textbooks of uh uh genetics I mean this
became truth so to speak not that there
weren't people uh you know other other
scientists that were standing up and and
saying uh John you know this isn't
proven yet you know let's look a little
closer I don't this is not necessarily
the case but what did he do he wouldn't
tolerate that John money uh you know was
a tyrant he would not tolerate another
uh uh uh psychologist or or biologist or
geneticist standing up and trying to
publish something that would challenge
uh his great gender theory he would he
he he would arrange you know he would
intimidate the um the editors at the
scientific journals to not publish those
articles it's a lot of what's actually
going on right now is very similar right
so um so what happened with the twins is
that uh after
decades uh in fact John money wrote a
book in 199 7 in which he said yet
again that his twin study um that his
that his gender Theory had been uh
confirmed and supported by the results
of this experiment with the twins and
the following one one person experiment
by the way a one person experiment yeah
but even that one person it didn't work
okay so in 19 yeah so in
1998 um uh
what do we call him now not
Brenda not Bruce but what happened is
that we we we we discovered that he he
stood up and he
said he he just blew the cover of this
whole thing was a hoax and he his name
was now David Brenda had become
David and he was not only not only a man
but he was married to a woman with uh
and he had a adopted three stepchildren
and he worked as a janitor in a
slaughterhouse right so that was David
David reamer and people can go onto
YouTube and hear him being interviewed
about his experience of what it was like
to be told um for 14 years of his
life that he's a girl and to never ever
ever feel that that was that that was
his truth to and and um what happened is
that during all those years he he was
not happy with his dresses and with his
dolls uh he was he was he wanted to go
play with with his brother's toyss he
wanted to um pee standing up he wanted
to uh you know he was rough he was he he
he was he was so boyish that and
aggressive that um kids called him uh
cavewoman okay they made fun of him
because the way the way that he walked
and and his gestures and his interests
were all so masculine and he was a
miserable child and the and the family
was miserable and on top of everything
when he was going back when the family
was going back for those yearly visits
to John's Hopkins with Dr money Dr money
was sexually abusing those twins okay
how
he was forcing them to undress and um to
uh to mimic sexual intercourse and he
would say you know this is how this is
what men and women do together and he
would you know humiliate them and show
them pictures and the point came why did
they stop going down to Johns Hopkins
the boys refused to go they refused to
go back to see Dr money and the parents
couldn't understand
why they he was quite the stunning creep
All Things Considered now the John's
Hopkins also closed that clinic down a
not how long after these Revelations
emerged did they well then that would
have been Dr Paul McHugh who was a is a
uh you know a giant in this area and he
had the wisdom um and the foresight you
know to understand what was going on he
uh he he there were some studies that
were done that would follow up on uh the
IND individuals who had the sex
reassignment to see how they were doing
and those studies showed that they were
no they were they were they were still
really suffering uh they they weren't
they hadn't necessarily
necessarily benefited from that surgery
and that's sexual reassignment so and he
wrote about that in a great book Dr Paul
McHugh um his book called The mind has
mountains and he wrote a a chapter
called surgical sex explaining how we
would be
wise if we pay attention to their
psyches and help them emotionally and
psychologically and not try to change
their bodies so Dr McHugh closed up John
money's Clinic that is true but you know
what the harm was already done by the
time it became public knowledge and and
actually it's not even to this day such
public knowledge
unfortunately
um when it became public knowledge and a
and a book was written by John kapino
called as nature made him the boy that
was raised as a girl and it just told
this entire story from A to Z it's a
shocking shocking story um and everyone
should read that book
um so by the time that book came out in
1999 or
2000 it was already you know that theory
was already baked into um sex education
and and you know
sociology and and psychology and um not
I mean look I have a book Dr Peterson I
have a book that was published in
1998 for
kids I brought it with me show and
tell this book came
out it's called
My My gender
workbook um and it has on the cover
um if you the picture here is half half
a Barbie and half a
Ken uhhuh okay obviously a book for
young
people and the entire premise of This
Book Is that the gender
binary uh is
false that we are not we do not all fit
into this category of male and female
and and they're not talking about
hermaphrodites or intersex okay they're
talking about none of us no one fits
into it it's
oppressive and we need to rebel against
it so clearly written by the author is
Kate Bornstein an individual who um has
had a very interesting gender Journey
going back and forth born as a man male
then a female then back and then neither
and this individual Kate Bornstein um in
1998 again I'm just I want to emphasize
how long ago this book was available and
written for young people to challenge
them and to um to to indoctrinate them
with the idea that Society is placing on
you these false restrictions Society is
telling you that you have to be a boy or
a girl and that is um that that is
something that is it's like racism it's
like sexism it's a terrible thing patri
it's patriarchal oppression yes and we
have to break in its purest form so you
know you have to understand that that
this is very
enticing for teenagers who want to
believe in something and want the world
to be a better place and they want to
fight against something they want to
fight against the
evil so this is presented as another
evil that exists in society
so um you know and this and this book
actually was
recommended uh
by oh gosh I'm going to say I'm not sure
the American Psychiatric association or
maybe
it was the American Psychological
Association one of those major
professional mental health
organizations way
before um the
DSM acknowledged gender dysphoria was
not a disorder so let me just be clear a
book like this a book like this and a
and and an individual such as Kate
Bornstein who was had a very active
schedule speaking on Camp CES public
appearances um you know all over the
place being made into a
celebrity this is all happening at a
time when Psychiatry still considered
this a disorder I mean on
paper on paper not identifying as male
or female and not identifying I'm sorry
with your biology in a way that's
consistent with your biology was still
called at that time a
disorder oh yeah this is
1998 the APA only changed the DSM in
2013 so this is 15 years before that so
what I'm trying to say is now did what
happened to David rhymer what happened
did David Rymer committed suicide
eventually didn't he yeah yeah yes so
that's that's the denant of that
particularly TR and his twin So Not only
was this a fail or it was a and go ahead
oh no it was a
disaster terrible disaster he committed
suicide and his twin brother died of an
of an opiate
overdose before him his twin died
first the entire family
was you know what what are the what kind
of words what I mean traumatize it's not
enough
trauma is not enough to describe what
that family went through my parents
didn't know a lot that was going
on and if they would have
known that would never would have
happened by me not saying
anything uh the medical
community was under the impression that
my case was a success
story and I was shocked when I heard
that people thought that my case was a
success story
so so what we should point out here is
that that uh this experiment couldn't
possibly have gone more cataclysmically
wrong than it did right Not only was
what money was saying was not true in
the technical scientific sense it was an
anti-truth and he falsified the data and
it culminated in the death of two people
the demolition of a family and the
perversion of an entire culture that's
John money's Legacy and and he never he
never publicly acknowledged it
he never publicly acknowledged that um
the twins had uh well that one of the I
don't know what the John money died I
think in 2006 and I think he had
dementia but when the book came out and
uh when John Kino's book came out that
that just like exposed this whole
Calamity there was nothing from John
money he was still alive he could have
made a
statement nothing I'm just saying that
that's just another
you know indication of what the morality
the immorality of this person and the
you know the the the lack of of
acknowledgment you know of that of what
they're guilty of doing I mean you know
I guess it's too much to
expect we'll be right back first we
wanted to give you a sneak peek at
Jordan's new documentary logos and
literacy I was very much struck by how
the translation of the biblical writings
jump started the development of literacy
across the entire world illiteracy was
the norm the pastor's home was the first
school and every morning it would begin
with singing the Christian faith is a
singing religion probably 80% of
scripture memorization today exists only
because of what is sung this is amazing
here we have a Gutenberg Bible Bible
printed on the pr of Johan gber science
and religion are opposing forces in the
world but historically that has not been
the case now the book is available to
everyone from Shakespeare to modern
education and medicine and science to to
civilization itself it is the most
influential book in all history and
hopefully people can walk away with at
least a sense of that
well you were you were making a case a
bit you you were making a case a bit
that part of the reason the psychiatric
and psychological professions the
medical professions did tilt in this
gender affirming Direction was because
money's research was taken as gold
standard and the pathology of that
research wasn't revealed until like 25
years later and so that excuses the
profession to some degree but by by your
testimony as well all of this started to
become pretty public knowledge by about
the year 2000 that the money experiment
had actually gone cataclysmically wrong
and yet what we've seen on the
psychological psychiatric and counseling
Front Medical as well is a doubling down
of the insistence that gender is nothing
but something that's socialized and that
medical transition is the appropriate
move okay so it that's all flying in the
face of evidence now instead of being
supported by evidence and so what but
you know do you have any thoughts about
but not only that not only that it
became more and more and more radical so
where we are today and where we are I
mean even this book in 1998 is much more
radical than John money this at least
John money said well you know you're
either male or female and that you need
and that that's fixed by the age of
three okay by
1998 kids were being told no no no no
that's a that's an oppressive false
binary it's all on a spectrum it's all
fluid um and and it's fluid for your
entire life and uh it's wonderful to
explore and to question and no one can
tell you who you are and just a million
different ways it's it's so much more
radical I mean I wish almost you know
that we were back with John money's
Theory because it would be so easy to um
you know def to to it's so easy now we
have so much information from hard
science in fact if John money were
living today he could never he he he
could never get published with such a
theory that he had about gender and
biology I mean it's ridiculous we have
too much information about the impact of
the chromosomes uh prenatally and uh you
know the the the the impact of hormones
so we we know now that men and male and
female you know it's it's not only
different
genitalia uh not only what John money
pointed out you know lactating and
menstruating we have each cell in our in
in our bodies except for cells that
don't have a nucleus which are very few
but every cell that has a nucleus is
stamped male or female and it makes a
difference right okay so there's a
female heart you know the the we know
now in cardiology that when it comes to
for example a rhythmia
there's a difference in the type of
aymas that a woman might get ATO as
opposed to a man there's a difference in
the way
that a woman who sustains uh a very a
very difficult
burn how her body might react to it as
opposed to a man and this is true for
every
system of the body so right so your
point well so your point is is that not
only do you see a a gender difference a
sex difference at the chromosomal level
but you see it at the cellular level and
you see it at the level of systems of
cells so organs you see it at the level
of broad physiology we talked about
lactation and menstruation and gestation
but there's the entire menstrual cycle
there's the completely different effect
of hormones all of that manifests itself
in different perceptual patterns and in
temperamental patterns that are Sex Type
to a large degree and so the point here
is that what constitutes sex is
instantiated as part of identity at
every single level of the hierarchies
that people are embedded in biologically
and then also socially because the
social roles that are assigned to men
and women are not merely arbitrary right
I mean part of what you see with parents
is that the manner in which parents
socialize their children is much more
directed by the children than people had
originally presupposed and so parents
who are uh establishing a genuine
relationship with their children use the
cues from the child's Behavior to govern
their interactions with the child and so
more feminine girls tend to be treated
as their by their parents as more
feminine creatures and more masculine
boys Etc but the idea that that's all
top- down socialization instead of
bottomup influence of biology is utterly
preposterous even though human beings
are quite flexible in the manner in
which they can be socialized so well the
thing is kids are being led to believe
and parents are being led to believe
that you can step in with these very
powerful medications these
hormones and you can deny biology and
you can pause biology and you can uh
create pause yes you can create a
Persona of the opposite sex without
paying a huge price that is the lie
that's being told that you're not going
to pay a price for this oh yeah there
might be a few side effects no no no no
you mean like a whole missing forearm
for example and a penis that doesn't
work and and sterility and lowered voice
and decreased bone density and the
increased probability of the development
of cancer and no evidence whatsoever
that there's any any mental health
benefit and all the trauma that you put
your family through and all the regret
that's going to emerge later in life
when you find out that you're sterile no
ability to breastfeed and complete loss
of erotic sensation in the nipples and
etc etc you mean those risks though
those trivial by the wayside risks that
are completely ignorable given all the
Euphoria you're going to experience when
you put your hand self in the hands of
liars and butchers I mean that story
okay so this is what parents don't know
that they must understand and they have
to understand this before their kid
comes home and says Mom I'm not your
daughter I'm your son they need to know
this way before that happens and that's
what I want to do for them yep
now look the the way that the Legacy
Media and the leftwing activists react
to a conversation such as ours is to
point out that we're scare mongering and
that this is this doesn't really pose a
threat to let's say the vast majority of
people and it's of much more help to the
small minority that it's aimed at than
it is harm and that what we're doing is
stirring up fear and gaslighting and you
know all the sorts of defensive
Maneuvers that the radicals engage in so
why do you think it's necessary for all
parents and so this isn't just parents
who have kids with gender dysphoria why
do you think it's necessary for all
parents to be um what would you say
aware of what's going on in the schools
and why do you think that that's of
sufficient widespread concern so that
your concern shouldn't be just dismissed
as conspiratorial delusion let's say
first of all let's look at the numbers
just in the past 5 years
10 years of this
explosive growth of uh individuals who
are coming in for treatment for gender
dysphoria so there is a hysteria that
we're in the midst
of um you know it's it's a wave it's a
tsunami I hope that we're at the the
crest of the wave right now but we could
just be at the beginning I mean s you
know just 10 years ago we had rates of
you know one in in 10 to 30 to 100,000
people w- W with with this particular
disorder we didn't even have numbers it
was so rare let's say 20 years ago it
was so rare for a teenager to present as
opposed to a little kid or an older
person it was so rare for for I mean
even they were rare but it was even more
rare for an for an adolescent to
suddenly come out with this this new
identity and with gender dysphoria so um
those people were so rare just 10 15
years ago and now we have studies
showing you know
10% 20% of a high school class in an
urban High School might identify as not
being male or female so I don't know
where this is going is is it you know is
it going to
40% um that's why parents have to be
aware of this I would also say uh in in
terms of fearmonger you know the charge
of fearmongering and it's really only a
minority of people who are going to
suffer um we have no data whatsoever to
support that no long-term data
whatsoever the data that we do have
shows us that the the
regret uh over this you know massive
life change and these surgeries might
take 8 to 10 years to develop and oh
yeah yeah yeah yeah and and and I would
add that not only does it does it take
time to develop it takes time to
acknowledge it and to come out with
it
publicly and the research that we do
have do you do you have any
advice I was going to say that those
people that regret it they're not going
back to the clinics and telling them
there's no one keeping the statistics on
them they're not coming back to their
doctors and saying how how did you do
this to me they can't sue it's too
late yeah yeah so why have you got away
with it I mean you know people are
cancelled pretty hard and it's really
devastating for people to be canceled
like I've seen I know about 200 people
who've been mobbed for expressing
opinions that aren't in accordance with
the radical leftist idology most people
respond to that being mobbed and
excluded as if they've contracted a
pretty damn ser ious illness you know
I've seen very well Jay baceria The
Physician from Stanford who was mobbed
for his views on covid he lost 35 pounds
in three months when Stanford basically
turned its back on him and I've seen my
colleagues hounded into well into
asylums in some circumstances as a
consequence of this now you've been
standing up against this for a long time
and you dared to go on melt Walsh's
documentary which was you know quite the
provocative move what is a woman can you
tell me
that oh you're at the women's March you
must have some idea please if one person
could tell me what a women is you are
not here for women we ask you to leave
what is that um why is it that you've
been able to get away with this and to
be so to speak and to be able to
withstand it what's different in your
case do you think oh no I've paid a
price oh I've certainly paid a price uh
years ago when I worked at UCLA
uh my first book came out in 2008 called
unprotected and I challenged the
political correctness of what was going
on in that student health clinic oh I
was I paid a very heavy price I was
shunned people who I thought were my
friends stopped talking to me after 11
years of very high you know positive uh
annual reviews of my work suddenly after
my book came out I got a negative
review and eventually I had to leave I
left because I became I was
marginalized so why did you continue why
didn't that stop you I mean look people
often apologize right and they apologize
and they backpedal and you continued
moving forward despite the fact that you
were facing substantial opposition for
your views like why do you because this
is rare this is why I'm concentrating on
it you know lots of psychi and
psychologists and counselors know
perfectly well that the sorts of things
that we've been discussing today are
100% true they know it but they will not
stand up and say it now you did and you
got punished for it why didn't you
apologize and quit okay I think there
are two reasons I'm going to say number
one is that my parents were Holocaust
Survivors and all of my grandparents and
and and a good pit a good bit of both
sides of the family were uh were
exterminated were were were victims of
the Holocaust so I understand tyranny
and I understand lies and I understand
when when dangerous people stand up and
and and say falsehoods and they are
followed out of um because out of fear
and intimidation I understand that too
well and I would say the other reason is
that I'm a person of Faith deep faith
and I believe that there are um that
there are Eternal truths and I believe
that part of why I'm here in the world
is to stand
up in my in my small way when when I can
to stand up for truth and to
um protect especially young people and
their families from this terrible
darkness of
Lies okay okay well that's a good place
to end Dr Gman I would say um thank you
very much for agreeing to talk to me on
YouTube today and its Associated
platforms for everybody watching and
listening um Dr grman I'll just remind
you has wrote a book called you're
teaching my children what back in 2009
and a new one coming out very soon lost
in transnation a child psychiatrist's
guide out of the madness she also
appeared on Matt Walsh's documentary
what is a woman which is where I
encountered her work um I'm going to
talk to Dr Gman for another half an hour
on the daily wire plus platform those of
you who would like to hear the
continuation of this conversation
slightly different direction are more
than welcome to do so show some support
for the daily W wire plus people who've
also facilitated this conversation and
many like it um for all of you who are
watching and listening your time and
attention is not taken for granted it's
certainly appreciated and to Dr Gman
well thank you very much for agreeing to
talk to me today and for well telling
all the stories you told to everybody
who's listening I'm sure there are many
parents out there who are tearing their
hair out in utter desperation who
desperately need something approximating
the runs of a life raft to cling to and
at least you can provide some evidence
that not every psychiatrist and
counselor in the entire bloody country
or the West for that matter has gone
Stark raving mad and become cowardly and
delusional
and so we much appreciated on that front
and I do think the tide is turning the
closure of the Tavistock clinic in the
UK is a big deal especially given the
bombshell Revelations that emerged in
the aftermath and as you said the
Scandinavians and the Brits have have
have have adopted a much more sensible
stance and comparatively rapidly and so
I can't see that the US and Canada
Australia New Zealand can withstand that
for very long so we'll pray you know
that all this Butchery and Li
starts to come to an end relatively
quickly and then if it does well you've
played some Cardinal role in that so
hooray for that thank
you you bet all right everyone we'll see
you well on the next YouTube um
discussion or on the dailywire plus
platform
ciao hello everyone I would encourage
you to continue listening to my
conversation with my guest on dailywire
plus.com